This is Jocko podcast number 371 with echo Charles and me jockel willing good evening echo good evening
We are what we pretend to be so we must be careful of what we pretend to be there's a quote from
curve on again
One of my favorite authors. Ah look that's kind of a weird thing to say because I don't have like this big list of
Favorite authors, sir, but he's one of the authors that I actually do really like a lot
Curve on again born and raised in Indianapolis went to Cornell University got kicked out ROTC because he had bad grades and
He was a little over the top with his satire in the school newspaper
So that kind of tells you what kind of a duty was
But then he didn't want to get drafted so he withdrew from college to go get enlist in the army
1943 got captured during the Battle of the Bulge
Prisoner of war in Dresden, of course, this is this I'm just giving you a basic background if you don't know this stuff
While he was a prisoner of war in Dresden Dresden got fire bombed by the Allied forces
25,000 civilians were killed and the place was just a wasteland and he had survived you they were being held as prisoners of war in
This slaughterhouse and he went into like the meat locker of the slaughterhouse
Which is where the book slaughterhouse 5 comes from
Anyways, he survives the war becomes a
reporter
Wrote a bunch of really good books very funny dark humor
Cats cradle book
Welcome to the monkey house slaughterhouse 5. We're starting to talk about
But this quote that he he gave which is we are what we pretend to be so we must be careful of what we pretend to be
It reminds me of this idea that we've been talking about for the last two podcasts
And if you haven't listened to podcast 369 and 370 then just stop and go listen to those first and then catch up here
But we've been talking about this idea of the game
And there's multiple games and you can go get that information from those other two podcasts
Also kind of reminded me of this idea of
Sam Harris and I were talking one time and he said
you can't
Pretend to be brave
Because if you're scared and you're like well, I'm really scared, but I'm gonna pretend to be brave
Well, and then you go and do brave stuff. Well, you're not just pretending you're actually brave
But
We have so that's kind of along the same lines somewhat as
Be careful what you're pretending to be because that's what you are and
That's reminded me of what we've been talking about you have to be careful of what game or what games you play
because
you
Can quite possibly become those games
More importantly the game that you play can become your life
So we did those last two podcasts about this 369 370
And we were getting a bunch of feedback and questions and
Comments and whatnot and so
I reached out on social media on the interwebs to get some get some of those questions
Get some of that feedback on those two podcasts and I want to go through those
Now just because a bunch of people want, you know, we had had some stones. We didn't turn over yet
Had some angles we hadn't seen
So first one out of the gate from sarah Armstrong
What's up sarah? I'm strong
she said
observation
if your win
Involves the participation of other people make sure you are not setting yourself up for disappointment by setting
unrealistic expectations for others
Yes, this is true
this is factual
We did a early podcast where I talked about the fact that I don't have a bunch of high expectations for other people
Yeah
Because if you said other people with a bunch of high expectations, you're counting on them
It's there's a decent chance you're gonna get let down
And why do that?
Why not take ownership of what's going on yourself? So that's my recommendation
And sarah armstrong is right here. We can't you can't count on others
Look, they can be part of the plan, but you better have a backup
And you better you better not have a single point of failure be relying on some other human
Because you're there's a decent chance you're setting yourself up as sarah says for disappointment
So don't expect too much if anything from others someone else next one
this is from
from Bizzle fitness
I don't know if i'm gonna cover all these weird
handles
That people have different call signs
Uh, really enjoyed these last two. I'd like to hear your thoughts on two related aspects to this pitfalls and opportunity costs
That's number one and two balancing multiple games
Easy example the folks that get old and either wish they had worked less or spent more time with their family or those
On other extreme who wish they had done more with their lives. Yeah, there you go
So first for the pitfalls
and opportunity costs
And as I went through these
We're gonna come into
We're gonna start hitting into a common theme and a lot of these questions and that is
investment and return on investment
right so
A pitfall
And any game that you play is you can lose
So when you get on the field or you engage in a game, there's a chance you're gonna lose
So what that means is you have to be careful with what you invest into that game
And you have to head your bets and you have to have contingency plans now. What's interesting about this is like the whole idea of
Like 100 commitment
Which is sort of a
Like do you hear this about seal training?
Like you better have to have no backup plan or officer and a gentleman your officer
No, please
I got nothing else
That's
Kind of a positive thing like I have no backup plan
Oh, I'm gonna start a business and I'm just I'm putting everything every every penny I have into it
And if it fails, I'm just done. I'm gonna be in the streets. Right?
And therefore I'm gonna
Go extra hard to make it work
If you have to do that to yourself psychologically, okay
If you don't have to do that to yourself psychologically
and you can set yourself up to
Have a backup plan if through your primary plan like seal training. There's a decent chance that you're not gonna make it through it
Because you got hurt because you got injured because you got sick because you didn't you thought you were tougher than you are and you quit
All those things happen. They happen to 80 percent of people that go there
So having a backup plan as long as you don't use that as you're out now look if you're gonna use that as you're out
Yeah, it's gonna let you down if you're gonna work hard in your business
But at the end of the day, you're like, you know what I can still just go back to my old job
And I still have my house
So I'm just gonna go back to my old job and go move back and just continue on
As opposed to being like no, I'm gonna gut through it because I have no nowhere else to go
You can see the dichotomy there. Yeah
I would hope that you have the internal fortitude
To push on and not just hit the escape hatch. It comes up, right?
What did I heard somewhere to experiment?
I forget where I heard it
Like they were drowning. Was this at Jordan Peterson the other night?
They were drowning if you take a chicken or they or a rabbit or something and they would drown it
and
They would hold it they would make it tread water. That's what it was. They would make a rabbit tread water
And I heard this on a podcast or something. I think I think oh anyways, I heard on a podcast
You take the the rabbit
And you put it in the water or a rat. I think there's a rat you put in the rat in the water
And it can tread water and it treads water trying to live trying to live trying to live
And then right as it goes under for the last time
You pull it out of the water
and
That takes about 15 minutes
And then if you do it with those same rats again
They'll tread water for like it was something like 60 hours
Because they think at any minute they're gonna get pulled out of the water
But if you take a fresh rat, it's still only going to make it 15 minutes. So
If you if you have the type of personality where you're just going to give up and go back to the easy way
Then I get it. You know, I don't maybe you don't have a a backup plan because you want to trap yourself where you have to keep going forward
That's a real thing man. That's a real thing wait to that rat
Experiment what did that? What was that conclusion there that like if you got some hope you're just gonna hang on till yeah
Hope will make you hang on
Hope will make you hang on that's crazy. Yeah, it is. Yeah, but it totally makes sense, right?
Yeah, and almost at the same time, which is like equally if not more significant
The lack of hope will make you just be like, hey, I'm kind of done 10 minutes, bro
Like there ain't no getting out of this. Yeah, like you literally have plenty of energy left to stick it out for
You know, however long but the lack of hope just pushes you right under. Yeah
So uh to be honest with you
My my lean is towards like yeah, you should have contingency plans
You should have backup plans. You should head your bets
You should say, oh, yeah, I'm gonna try this new business, but I'm not gonna quit my old job until I've got it up and running
Now there's probably a subset of people that can't do that and they're like the rat
That just is gonna give up after 15 minutes. You know what I mean? And they're just done
Yeah, don't you feel that like if you do if you draw the parallel like whereas someone I don't know
What are you talking about like starting a business starting a business? Oh, yeah, I want to leave my job
I'm gonna start a new business. Yeah, so
Basically the equivalent kind of I guess in a way is yeah, you start your new business you buy the website
It's the first step
And then you know, you start it in whatever way
But you hit a roadblock so hardcore
That you don't have that hope you do literally don't see it going anywhere
Like literally in your mind regardless of how it would you know, like that'll that'll kind of do the same thing
It's like, oh, yeah, just drowned just I'm just gonna drown myself because I lost the hope
It's done, you know rather than oh, this is just getting really hard or you know
This obstacle is like it's big and I don't have the energy, you know, it's more about oh, yeah
I don't see it going anywhere already quit your other job
Then maybe that pushes you right maybe you have you you have no other choice
It's a little bit different because it's like you have no other choice. It's not about hope anymore
It's like you have to what else are gonna do. Yeah
So I get it
That is a pitfall is the pitfall of all these different games
Is if you play these games you can lose and that means you need to in my opinion
Don't over invest. This is why we have the iterative decision-making process. This is why we make little steps
We don't just go you know what I want to start my own business quit my job
Give up my health insurance for my family can't pay the rent next month
Whatever, but I'm gonna start my new I'm selling widgets. We're gonna go for it
And you're gonna work hard to sell those widgets because you got a family of feet and you want to pay your mortgage
But guess what there's a chance that that thing it just was a bad plan and no one wants your stupid widgets
And now you're out of a job. You don't have health insurance for your kids. So why not take iterative steps?
Um
The other thing is the opportunity costs for sure
How much can you invest in winning a game right how much can you actually afford what and then what's the roi
When you're playing this game instead of that game. What's the roi on the game that you choose? Yeah
And is it worth it? What if you win that game? What if you lose that game?
You have to track risk and you have to track roi
There this is stuff that you need to think about you need to think about the risk in the game
And what the roi is
Should you win?
And then what the cost is should you lose?
And this is to do with anything look what we're talking about the game. This is anything
Anything that you are planning on doing you're planning on getting in a relationship. Okay, cool. What's the roi?
What's the risk?
Oh, she comes from a great background. She's got a squared away education. She comes from a stable family
She's got a very even temperament. Okay, cool
That sounds pretty positive when you start seeing red flags in there
Now you know you start saying okay. Well, there's some risk here. There's some risk there
So think about those things
And make logical decisions, but
When you make logical decisions, you still have to put emotions into the calculus
Because if you're doing if you're if you're gonna start this new business and you're totally passionate about it and you love it
And you might make less money, but you're you love doing it
That might be better
then
You have to think about it
You you're making more money, but you hate your freaking life. You hate your job 12 hours a day you hate
So you have to take emotions and put them into the calculus
So there you go that the other question there was how to balance multiple games that we're all playing well prioritize next year, right
And again, what's the roi and the risk per game in all these different games?
There's some games that you really have to pay attention to
What do you want?
What do you actually want?
What is actually going to give you fulfillment?
And you can't lie to yourself because there's people that lie to themselves
About what's going to make them happy
About what is going to give them fulfillment and if you lie to yourself for
Throughout your life if that's when you end up on your death bed to the again going back to a busy fitness's question
That's when you go to your death bed and you're like man. I didn't care about all this money or man
I didn't care about what you know this
uh
Going up the chain of command and some in the military or in some company or getting you know
I invested all my time into jujitsu and like I knew I wasn't going to be a champion. I wasted all whatever
I don't know what it is
Seems like a hard one
But you know, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, it's true. There's people that there's people that reach a point in jujitsu
Where they're like, oh, you know, I I don't want to do this anymore. Yeah, that happens
Yeah, yeah fully and I guess it with
jujitsu I felt like and there's I went through mental stuff like that too where
I felt like there was a whole reason
that I
liked jujitsu is like
To be able to get into a competition like in almost like a combat sport and win
It made me feel good about myself kind of a thing
And then after like a few, you know, like years of control with the psychological reveal
But after years of competing and then when I got into like
My career and then eventually kind of got married or whatever. I was like wait you kind of got married
I'm gonna give you a chance to say that correctly
So that we don't get any
I was gonna say the person that you kind of got married to
I was gonna say I kind of got um other
Responsibility so to speak even though like jujitsu is the responsibility. That's why I say kind of anyway
You get married start having like kids and stuff. It puts it into perspective like hey
Sure, I'm always gonna go to jujitsu, but why don't I feel the same way?
And I'm like, oh wait it puts into perspective. They're more important things than winning jujitsu tournaments
So you looked at the ROI
Of you know training seven days a week three hours a day
And you and the and the ROI of
Investing time and effort into your family and the ROI of investing time and effort into your career
And this is exactly what we're talking about. You had to prioritize an execute. You know what seven days a week three hours a day
And my ROI on that is I'll feel good about a competition
But the ROI of investing in my career is I can get money. I can get stability
I can take care of my family and by the way, that's the other thing my family
There's the ROI of you know raising my kids and the smile on my wife's face all those things and you weigh those out
And you were honest with yourself
And you prioritize those things in the correct way
So that when you're on your death bed, you're not like man, I really wish I would have trained jujitsu more or you're like
Boy, I'm glad I won that tournament. Yeah, you know, even though my wife left me
And my kids don't know me. I'm really happy. I won that tournament and I got a coral belt in jujitsu when I was 68
Yeah, that was that was kind of the thought really where it went through this
You went through this
With your
With with these things in your life
You actually did this protocol and we talked about this we talked about that being honest with yourself
That was sort of the underlying theme of I think 370 the the last one was like you have to be honest with yourself
about these games
And in this podcast as I read through these questions
The specific thing is you need to be honest yourself about
The investment you're willing to make and what the return is
And is it worth it and is it what you really want? Yeah, because if it's not
You know, I've seen this happen with fighters too like fighters reach a certain point where
They say, you know what? I mean like I just
I'm I don't want to do
Eight-week camps where I can't see my family and God or whatever happens with people in the military. They're like, you know what?
I've I've done my 10 years. I'm not committed to the job anymore
I don't want to do it anymore and they get out and they move on to something else the ROI
They have to be honest with themselves. I've also seen people lie to themselves
Yeah, about these types of things and by the time they get out
Of the military
They realize that they were pursuing something because they were basically caught in that ecosystem
We talked about that on one of the other podcasts like man. That's so true
The other thing that weighs into this like
Just to just to kind of get precise on what you just said
You knew you actually weren't going to be better than everyone at jujitsu. You weren't you weren't going to be the world champion
No, you're gonna be good. You're gonna be good at a particular you'd be in the top three or five in in a gym
You weren't going to be the number one even in that particular gym
And you definitely weren't going to be number one in the state of california or certainly not in the world
If you would have had that maybe potential
Now all of a sudden the ROI becomes oh, it's a little better ROI. I can actually be a champion
I can actually start a school. I can have a whatever you can make a living from it now
There's other things that come out of it. You you weren't in that situation. Oh, yeah
So and that's a good point because you don't really well then again, I don't know
I can only speak for myself
but I didn't really think about that
Until I got my eyes kind of opened where I'm like, oh wait, there's all this other stuff that I can be like
Kind of I could see a path to legitimate success over here
But then in jujitsu if I even like think about it like that which I never really did
I just was like I liked training and winning and then doing the tournament or whatever
But then if I look at like a more a long-term path, you're right. I was like, yeah
I'm not even close to these like the real dudes, you know, so I'm like, oh, why would I do this?
Nice thing about having Dean Lister in a gym. We're like, bro, this guy
And Dean Lister, you know, he was number one in the world at certain times
But a lot of times he's getting beat by other guys. So you're thinking well, this guy's destroying me
So where am I? I'm gonna be like
Third or fourth or fifth in my gym. Yeah, and keep in mind. I'm in my 30s at this time
Yeah, so let's face it, you know, but the point is I was I didn't my eyes weren't even open to that
It was just like it was part habit part payoff going to the gym and learning cool stuff or whatever
But
Well, you just like how you said that ecosystem you get blinded by just that ecosystem because you're just in it
You know and then so other things open my eyes or whatever and then you can see, you know
for me the jujitsu is just a r the r y on jujitsu is the
Uh personal like the good feeling when I get done training
Yeah, and especially when I kind of go to war like when I'm having wars on the mat
It feels good get done like you just know you pushed
Yeah, you you got tapped you tapped whatever doesn't matter, but you you you you struggled you into war
in in
that
Arena which is sense bj pan actually said on this podcast. It's called mine pump. He was on this podcast
He's uh, he was like I I trained for my mental health and I was like, oh, that's so true because really that's essentially what you said
It's like you go in it's like it's therapy in so many different ways
You it's the kind it's so good. We're like just the activity
And I found that even when I go and I don't have hard training or I do have hard training to me
It's all the same at the end
I mean look if you have a bunch of super duper easy trainings in a in a row and you're like frick
I wish I okay, there's that but you go to jujitsu unless you get injured
Which I had before but if unless you get injured you go home you can feel better 100 even if you really didn't feel like going
Which is a lot of the time, but if you get yourself it's like any workout, you know
But you just as those extra elements of like I don't know something that like
Fulfills you or whatever. Yeah, no, they made that
They made that video at origin of my daughter talking about it and she was just like
Once she realized how good it made her feel
Yeah, but mentally that's when she was like, oh, I can I should do this all the time
And it happens when you withdraw from it. You're like, why don't I feel that good? And all of a sudden you do you like oh
Yeah, so that's what I feel like. Yeah
So the ROI on that level for me jujitsu. This just this just
Devolved into just a pure jujitsu discussion
But it applies to everything. Yeah, it applies to checking the ROI on the game
Whether that game is you're gonna get focused on getting involved in uh, you know your your
Thing at work like where does it go?
That's someone people get caught up in they get caught up and like, oh, I'm in this job
I'm in this corporation and I'm gonna make it. I'm gonna make it to the next level. I'm making the next level
Okay, that's cool as long as that ROI is real as long as you're like, oh
If you're like, hey, I'm just doing this because the pay is great and I can take care of my family
And I'm gonna get promoted and get more money. Okay, cool. Cool work hard and that all works out
If you're thinking, oh, I want to
I want people to call. I want to be the VP
Right. I want to be the EVP
And then you think that's gonna make you feel better and if it does cool, that's fine. That's awesome
Like hey, you rose up you were in a big company. You were running a big department. You had a lot of responsibility
You're taking care of much with that that is totally legit
As long as you're telling yourself the truth if you're lying to yourself. That's when it becomes problematic
That's one thing that's so cool about ash on front is I work with so many different people like there's people that do you can name it
And they're totally into it, man
And it's awesome
Like I want I love to work with people that whatever they're doing whether they're digging ditches
But they're doing it safely and they're doing you know doing huge contracts and it's awesome
They're running big companies and it's cool. They love doing that stuff or they're you know
making a product or they're
Providing a service, but they're into it
They're in the right game
And I hope that if you're listening you can do an honest assessment of yourself and make sure that that game that you're in
Is the right game for you
And if you're doing something that you say
Oh, I don't care about my clients if you don't care about the people you're that you're serving
Or you're providing services from that's not a good indicator
If you're working with people you don't really like or you don't really want to take care of that's not a good indicator
So be honest with yourself and make sure that the game that you're in from a work perspective is the right game
That's a lot more common problem than I'm into a
You know Jiu Jitsu is an example, but any hobby that you're into
Like you invest a bunch of money into
archery
You wouldn't invest a bunch of money unless it was unless you liked it unless the ROI was good
So the hobbies are a little bit easier to just I'm not going to do that
Yeah, actually the hobbies are the opposite where you should be doing it, but you're not
You know you you you know you should be training Jiu Jitsu
You know you should be lifting weights
You know you should be running or do whatever thing it is because you know it makes you feel good, but you say, you know
Right you forget about the ROI you forget about the return you only think about the investment
Well, you know, I got to get up early and do this before I go to work and that's kind of a pain
You only you focus on the investment. You don't focus on the return the return is your health and that's what you should focus
That's why
Measuring the investment and measuring the return on investment of what you do in the game whatever game it is
That's why I'm trying to get you to pay attention to them
All right
Next one Carter Royce. I guess Carter hoist. Maybe if he's from Brazil
Uh, if everyone on a team has a different overall life game slash goal
How do you work to align these different perspectives into one that benefits the overall team?
And this is work relationships community
Here's the here's the cool thing about this
Living well
Doing good and helping each other
Generally speaking helps helps ourselves as well
It generally so when you're talking about
Interacting with other people whether it's at work whether it's in your family whether it's in your community if you help other people
It's going to help you
And if everyone recognizes that then we're all aligned so if
If I help echo
If if you and I work together
And if you work hard and so you provide a good service to our clients
I benefit you benefit I benefit and we both know that at actual on front
Okay, so take actual on front. We got a bunch of instructors there
The better each individual instructor does right the better jp does the better laif does the better. I do
The better Dave does the better each individual instructor does
Providing the service for the client the better that individual does
And the better actual on front does
Because people call back say we want jp to come again. We have he's great. We want him to come and do a four-day workshop
Like that's what happens
So guess what jp makes more money actual on front makes more money the client gets taken care of so
That's the way it is with
Most in your family
oh your
Your kid is you take you you get your kid to study, you know, you talk to explain to them the why they study hard
They get better grades. They get better grades
That's beneficial not just for you. You'd be like, hey, my kid's a straight a student, right? You get the brag cool
Yeah, but also your kid gets a better life
They get into a better school. They get a better job
All that stuff happens the family's doing better because now I don't have to rely my kid's not relying on me for that
For that, you know kicking down some some money because they don't have a good job
How does alignment roll into that because like how he's asking like everyone has a different overall gaming goal
Well, what I'm saying is
If you're part of a team because he's talking about an individual team whether that team is a family a company if
We you know at my family
If I say hey, listen, we got to do a better job with not spending so much money
We're wasting money on this we're wasting money on that people are going buying a cup of coffee that costs three dollars
It's it's hurting us
We need to tighten it up
So when I say that to the whole family the whole family realize oh, I need to spend less money. Guess what we end up with more
Financial security because we're not wasting a bunch of money and that means we can
You know get that new roof that we need because our roof is leaking. Yeah, like this is what happens
So when you're all working together, it's very rare
That's something that helps the individual
Doesn't help the team
right
Because because then what why are you part of why is there a team?
Yeah teams are meant to achieve a goal
Whether that's a business whether that's a family whether that's a sports team
You know if if echo if you and I are part of the same company
And you and I are supposed to make widgets and you make 10 a day and I only make five a day
The fact that you made more than me is actually good for you because you're going to get your bonus, but it's also good for me
I don't want to like undermine you
Because then all of a sudden we're not getting as many of our widgets made and now we don't have as many to sell and now some other
Place can come in and get a market share from us and that's a problem. Yeah, so for this
When you when you climb the ladder of alignment, which I talk about a lot at echelon front
You and I might be competing to make widgets right you you you and I are getting a bonus based on how many we make
And whoever makes more gets a better bonus. We're competing
Yeah, but as soon as we go up one level
Up the up the ladder of alignment
And I say
Hey, I don't want to actually like steal some of your parts for your widget
So you can't make as many or so your widgets don't meet the quality
And now someone out in the marketplace buys it and it doesn't work right and now they complain to put it on yelp and now our sales go down
So when you go up and say hey look even though we're competing against each other see you can make more widgets
and still maintain quality
Even though we're competing against each other if you go up one level
We're actually working together because if we provide good widgets and we make a lot of them
There'll be more to sell we can lower the price a little bit which means we can sell even more
We can drive some other people to sell them
We can sell even more we can drive some other people out of the market like that's what's happening
Yeah, so climb the ladder of alignment a little bit go to a higher place where it's like oh
We are on the same team. Yeah
I always listen to that when you say
Climb the ladder of alignment because you know people
That's like one of the main questions that people ask you in my when I mean in my experience
I'm like, hey, what do you do when we're not aligned and this person has little separate agendas, right?
And so I'm thinking wait a second. Yeah, that's obviously a common problem
So why is it always that's like not that simple, but why is it always?
Like you always have that same solution and it makes perfect sense
So I'm still thinking why the hell is it still a problem like that much because people mistake agendas for alignment
They mistake the fact that you and I are competing
To who can make more widgets?
They mistake that fact that we're competing and we're actually trying to go against each other with the fact that if you go up
A few levels we're actually both trying to do the same thing and move in the same direction
Yeah
Yeah, I've realized slowly but surely the jam up comes when
Someone invokes their short-term agenda at the expense of the long-term agenda even for themselves
And by the way and when that happens, so I steal some of your parts
Yeah, and I mess them up and I put them back in your bucket of the widgets you're assembling
Yeah, so I can look better. You can look so I look better. Yeah, and all someone needs to do is pull me aside and say
Hey, jocco, we got you know, we saw that we saw what you did
Let me ask you this jocco if you know
Someone buys one of the parts that echo made one of the widgets that echo made it doesn't work
What's that going to do to our reputation? Oh now they're gonna want not going to want to buy the ones that you made either
Oh
Now we're not selling as many of these things
Oh now in order to cover our margin. We got to raise our prices
Oh now that we've raised our prices the competitor comes in and is looking even better with an even lower price. Oh
We're getting driven. See what I'm saying. All you have to do is pull the thread on it and you realize that
Occasion it's so rare and usually this what I say it's so rare that people are actually not aligned
Yeah, once you go high enough look we can be aligned even in a seal platoon. It's like you have you have seth in in
Delta platoon and laif and charlie platoon. They're competitive against each other
You know, they both want we only got you know seven of the new weapon sites the new high speed weapon sites
They want some all seth wants them all
And if they're gonna steal them from each other
That's bad
But if I say hey guys, who's got a mission that more requires these sites
Yeah, and laif's like well, you know
Seth's doing this these patrols over in this area. That's further ranges
He could probably use them. Oh, okay as soon as you go up a level
The problem gets solved
Occasionally very rarely
echo
Actually wants to start his own widget business. Mm-hmm. So he's doing things that legitimately are not aligned
He's making parts that are not he's making widgets that suck
And they're gonna go out in the market. We're gonna have a bad reputation. He's gonna go up
I started to echo his widgets and we make the highest quality. Yeah, so occasionally you can have people that are
Truly not aligned at the top of the linemen ladder of alignment. They're not aligned. This is what I always ask people
I ask companies like, okay
Who here doesn't want the company to be profitable? No one raises their hands
Who here doesn't want to take care of the people on your team? No one raise your hand
Who here doesn't want to take care of your customer?
No one raises their hand. So there all of a sudden everyone's aligned. Everybody wants to make money
Everybody wants to take care of their team and everyone wants to take care of the customers
Everyone's aligned. No one goes like, well, I'd actually like to screw over the customers or like, hey
I actually I actually want my team to to be in a bad bad position or I want the company to lose money
That's not happening. Same thing in war
What do we want to do kill bad guys keep our guys safe and win the war? Okay
Who who here wants to get their guys killed? No one who here doesn't want to kill the bad guys? No one
Who here wants us to lose? No one. So we're aligned. You might be thinking we should attack from this direction
I'm thinking we should attack from a different direction
But one of us is right one of us wrong. It's not that we disagree on what we're trying to achieve
So we're aligned. We just have different ideas
And that's all there is to it
And it's the same thing here when it comes to these various games that we're playing
Yeah, that um and jp tells a good story about this
But that that's a good point where it's like, yeah, you might have two different ideas
But once you kind of realize how aligned you really are you start to be like wait a second
Let's really hash out who has the better idea whether it's you or me or whatever
But it puts it into perspective that much more
So and that's what happened jp according to his story about uh, you guys, you know when he came back
You know, he has all these like important missions and all this like big huge impact
He's maybe he comes back and then he has to be like an instructor which he thought was like
Not that it was like a misuse of his his value or whatever. It was a danger to society
It was a danger to bud students. I can guarantee you that
Freakin jp in ramadi as the lead sniper
And then whatever two weeks later. He's like standing in front of bud students. That's not a good transition period for jp
to know at 22 years
You realize that's literally when I met jp. Oh really like right when he got back. Yeah
That's what I met him for the first time with cake. Where'd you meet him? Oh, it's a tsu shi. Yeah
He was like sure. Okay, but um
But he makes a great point where he's like he was so mad. He even admits like I was so mad
I should be over there doing this. You know killing me and he talks to you one time and you're like, hey
That was your mission then this is your mission now
We're fighting where you're doing this you're gonna train these guys
So we the best you possibly possibly possibly can so they can be good enough to go over and we never have to go to
Freeing ore again. Boom. Just like that. Mm-hmm put back into perspective
Alignment revealed alignment revealed. So there you go
Um, there you go. Carter
Hope that helps next one easy money, dude. Hell yeah
check
How do you identify what games are worth playing or games to avoid again?
This is this is a study in return on investment
Now and it's not just return. It's return on investment
So it's what are you gonna have to put into this thing and what can we possibly get out of it?
And what are the risks involved?
And then you just have to be honest with yourself
Just be honest with yourself. You're looking at some some game
Want to get involved with a girl want to start a new business want to get involved in a club
You know, there's like a you know, rotary club or whatever want to get involved in that thing
Want to get involved in some volunteer organization, whatever it is
What do you have to put into it?
What's the return going to be and what are the risks involved?
And be honest with yourself
Did you know that Seinfeld had nine episodes and they were like at the top of the charts and then he just stopped
Remy had nine episodes or not episode. Sorry nine seasons. Yeah, and it was number one
And he just stopped and they were like what the hell they wanted him
They were gonna pay him crazy amounts of money for a tenth season
So why didn't you do it because of this?
He identified the game worth playing because he looked back. He said i'm not married. I have no kids nothing
All i'm doing is this show no matter how successful it was like that's not worth it anymore
As far as my life the games i'm playing there you go. Perfect example. He had to look at it. He's got this game
He knows what the investment is. It's his time. It's his effort
And he's putting everything into it
And he's already achieved. He's gotten what he what the return that he's gotten. He's like, you know what I got enough money
I got enough fame
I got enough credit, you know street cred from who gives street cred comedians cred or something
Well, it is literally one of the if not the most successful sitcom of all time
So that's like that's a big deal to be like, oh, i'm done. Did you watch that show a lot? Yes
Like all of it. Yes. Okay pretty good. I think so. Yes
But it relates to like all the little everyday things in life and at like point. It's yeah, it's pretty good
It's it's very I've watched I've watched probably I've watched some of them probably like 20 of them or something like that
But if there's nine seasons, I really not even scratch in the surface
But that's a great example. He looked at it measured the ROI
And said, okay, cool. I'm done and there you go. Good. Good, uh
Good metaphor there next one is from that jake denham
Denham something like that. How did you learn about real estate investing? Um, a guy told me
A guy a sky in the seal teams
That I worked for was like, yeah, you know, I bought I bought houses
And they increased in value over time. I mean, I don't know how he said it specifically
But that but that's basically what he said to me. He probably said something like, you know, I bought this house
Eight years ago. He's older than me. I bought this house eight years ago for 150 grand
It's worth like 400 grand now and I must have been like, hmm like
the slow turning
Things coming together and the other thing in this one I did remember
He was like because he rented these houses out. He's like someone else is paying my mortgage
And that seemed very smart and I realized that I was one of those people that was paying someone else's mortgage
and I didn't like that so
Started buying houses, you know bought at a time buy a house
Yeah, as soon as I had that house was kind of settled in and then bought another one and just tried to hold on to him
And that's what I did. Um
Yeah, that's how I that's how I learned about real estate investing. I took some really simplistic phrases from a dude
That was telling me what was up and just saw the game. I I saw the game
That's
Let's bring it back to this right? I saw that this guy had bought a house for 100 grand and now it was worth 300 grand
In like a seven-year period
But more that seemed cool more important. I realized that someone else was paying for that house
Yeah
And I realized where I was on the board on the game board, right? I was paying rent, bro
I was paying for someone else's house. How would you feel if you're like at a bar?
And like you're sitting there drinking your beer
And then the bill comes over and you're signing it and you're signing there's some other go dude. He's having like
Orderves he's having bottle service bottle service and they're like, yeah, you're
Here's his bill. You'd be pissed. You wouldn't stand for it
But we stand for that with when it comes to where we live. We basically stand for it
So once I realized we're out that's a good example of oh
There's a game. I didn't know I was part of the game. I didn't know it's part of the game
I thought that's what was happening. You gave me the bill. I signed it. I didn't know this guy was over here with bottle service
You know, I'm paying for his bottle service
That's what you're doing. You're buying someone a house when you're paying rent
Look, are there times we got a rent? Sure. You go to you take a job. You're in a job for a short period of time
You're only gonna be in this city for a year and it's you don't know what's gonna happen the market
I'm not saying go run out and buy a house tomorrow. You need to understand what's happening
But if you know, you're gonna be somewhere for a longer period of time
Yeah, and you can afford to buy a house go buy a house
So I realized that that's what realized that's what made me realize it's one of the earlier games
That I checked into
um, another question from him is
How to know when you're playing the wrong game and it's time to quit
Or switch games. Okay
ROI, right?
Uh, measure the ROI. What are you getting out of this?
If you're gonna get a lot out of it, but it's a lot of effort. Okay. Well, is it worth the effort?
Is it worth the investment time money leadership capital, whatever the thing is
Family is it going to be worth it?
Or is it not?
And so you when you figure out the risks and you figure out the investment and you figure out the return
You may or may not get based on those risks. Okay, then you can make a decision
We also now what's interesting about this question is
We're in the game. He's saying you're playing the wrong game. So now what we have to do is we have to do an honest assessment of our
Trajectory in this game, right?
How well am I doing?
Am I making progress?
You know how now in the UFC when you watch the UFC they have the odds
They show the odds after each round
Yeah, so now that's a new thing. I don't know how new it is, but it's a few years old but
Like oh echo really did great in that last round against jaco. His odds of winning now just went up
Oh, jaco just came back and had a great round and plus echo was like stunned at the end of the round
It looks like he was going to get knocked out. He got saved by the bell. Oh jaco's odds just went up for the last round a lot
You have to do an assessment and see where you're at, right?
And see what is your trajectory of what's happening? It's kind of like what you said you did with your jiu-jitsu career
You're like, okay, I'm 30 whatever you're 34 years old
I'm the seventh best guy in my gym, which is not bad, but let's face it. We're one gym
Okay, and I'm making progress, but so is everybody else
Okay, where am I? Where am I going with this?
Same thing with a job, you know, okay, I've been at the same job. I've been in this position for for four years
I haven't been promoted in the last three years
I don't have a good relationship with my boss
This does not seem like it's a good fit for me
So you've got to do an honest assessment of your trajectory
and
Make a decision
Uh
One thing that you can do is you can kind of mitigate risk, right?
This is a story I've told a few times, but greg mackentire. Sure great train. Yeah, great train
At a certain point greg's a badass
He's a freaking great wrestler his jiu-jitsu solid. He's a great athlete. He's a good boxer
and he was kind of he was he was starting in the MMA scene and
He had like he had real legit potential in MMA because he's a great wrestler tough as nails
Strong for I mean he's freaking 50 155 pounder. He's strong as hell
so greg train
Actually asked me and this was like
Probably 15 or 20 years ago. This is a long time ago. This is probably 20 years ago
He was like, what do you think I should do?
Should I just dedicate my whole life right now to MMA?
Or should I keep training but also he wanted to get a degree. He wanted to become an x-ray technician. That's what he is, right?
And I was like listen bro
How many hours a day can you train?
Legitimately and I said can you train 16 hours a day?
And he said no I said no one can train 16 hours a day. How many if you really train hard?
How many hours a day can you train including recovery like the whole nine yards?
He's like, I don't know maybe four or five right? That's like training conditioning recovery
Maybe you do six. Maybe you do six
Okay, you're gonna work eight hours a day you sleep eight hours a day
That's 16 hours
right
You got plenty of time
to train and you can still have a backup to MMA in case you go to wrestling practice tomorrow
And blow your knee out which can happen on any given day
And so he played both games, you know and and he he you know, he had a good run at MMA
he also ran into some problems that were tough to deal with and so
he mitigated the risk
played more than one game at the same time
And when the MMA thing dried up guess what he still had a cool career
Making good money beautiful family taking care of them house like the whole nine yards
So that's a situation where he didn't necessarily quit the other game
but he he
mitigated the risk by playing multiple games at the same time
So there's this thing called the sunk cost fallacy. Yeah, it's like I got it in one of these questions for sure
Yeah, because that's a factor and I'm thinking back to my bouncer days where
You know, I had you know, kind of you know, I spent a few years there and like
And I remember one time my brother Jade he goes he goes. Hey, you ever thought about getting another job and I was offended
I was like bro all the
Stuff I learned all the friends that I made all the stuff like basically all these commitments that I've made over the years
And accumulated all these little, you know results or whatever
I kind of kept me in there kind of like hey if I get it if I start all over it's kind of like what about all that
What I put into that given the circumstances and I'll tell you you probably just gave the most shallow example of sunk cost fallacy
Because honestly, yeah, because if you think about it, I mean, what is that really like you didn't you look you you made some friends
You had a moved up the chain where you were now like the shift lead or something like that
Which probably took you six months or something
And when you get to people that are in legit sunk call, oh, it's like, oh, I went to I went to undergrad
I got my pre-law. I went to law school
I did my freaking time as a clerk and went up through the chain of command and now I'm a lawyer
It's been eight years. I've invested
$450,000 and I freaking hate it. You know, I hate this job. Yeah
That's sunk cost. Yeah where they go
Do do I really walk away from this right now? That's where people have to that's where the sunk cost makes people
Stick with the same crappy job, but they don't like
For a long period of time, which I recommend definitely watching out for well
You know, well, you know the the common example of sunk cost is the movie theater one, which is more shallow than mine even
Do you you already paid for the movie? So yeah, you go to the movie
You go through halfway three quarters and you're like, I might as well finish it, you know, I'm
I'm here. You know what I'm gonna do walk out of the movie. I already paid you know that, you know, but no, bro
walk out
I
What I do in a movie sucks. I just go to sleep, bro
I feel so like comfortable sleeping in theaters. Have you when my kids were little we'd go to see like one of those kids movies
Oh, yeah, and and look, there's some really good kids movies, but a lot of times they just they're just not good
But I would just mon
Incredibles. Yeah, it's good. The Incredibles
I like Moana. That was a good one, man
I don't think I made it through that one. Come on
I don't know if I made it. There's a lot of them that is some coins for sure. Yeah, so but most of them go to sleep
I haven't walked out of a lot of movies. Well, that's different. So like you walked out of a lot of movies
I walked out on the one with Angelina Jolie and Ethan Hawke
Back at the time. I don't even yeah, I even forget what it was. I remember he there. I don't think I've
It didn't seem like you're kind of moving though, but
But but keep in mind I think when you walk out of the like you can't just tell the kids
Hey, I'm bored with this kids movie. So, you know, self-course fall asleep. That's like
Yeah, that's a good kind of a joke in my family. Let it's like when we when they would know
Yeah, I'm just going to sleep. It's not time for just snore
and embarrass them
Yes
So again, this boils back to we have to pay attention to risk
Investment and return on investment and we have to do an honest assessment if you're in the game
You got to check your trajectory honestly
And look you echo looked at his trajectory and said, you know what? I'm kind of a shift lead now
I got these friends. I could I could get beer, you know, whenever I want
I'm head of the line privileges at these other clubs. I kind of
Right. Yep
But he had to look at a longer term trajectory like okay, where am I going to be in five years?
And all you have to do is meet that one person that's like been a been in some position that you're in but they've been there for
17 years. Yeah, and you're like, oh, so there's like one more element involved in that exact thing right there. So
You know when I started over there at the club
I was 23 just turned 23. So, you know, you see a guy who's like 40. You're like, oh, well, I'm only 20 that's like
Two decades from now, you know, like brah. I'll be you know, whatever. You don't even think it's so far ahead
But then when you uh, after a while you get old actually, it's not like for it. It's like you see a guy who's 30
You're like, oh, I'm not gonna meet that. That's like seven years. It's forever. It's like a third of my life, right?
Yeah, what's he doing here? Yeah, and to be honest, you don't even apply it to yourself because that's just him and too bad
I mean, I guess cool up to you. That's your life, you know, whatever and then you start reaching 20 29 and remember back
Wait a second. I was looking at that 130 and that's next year. So you're like, dang. That's when it hits you
Yeah, for sure. That's all it means. That's real. That's when you realized you were uh,
Stationary you were running on a treadmill that wouldn't get you anywhere. Um in a certain lane for sure. You were in the wrong game
I was in the wrong game
But here's the thing though, like I don't want to paint this picture like it was all shit because to be honest
Like I learned so much which I didn't even realize by the way
I learned so much just dealing with people under certain types of circumstances. You're like, ah, you know, like
But yes, like after a while you kind of hit the wall in that regard where you're like, well as far as a career
Because really when you reach 30s, that's like if you're not in it
You're kind of like looking out for one, you know, and I didn't think did you ever think about opening your own club?
Yeah, and then what happened with that
It was just thought, you know
It just didn't even yeah, it didn't formulate
Well, me and star started dating then, you know when you have like a girlfriend was
a one in my case
I had a girlfriend who had like a for real job
She was making like for real money like adult money
You know, what was she doing property management? Oh, check
So you kind of compare it, you know, I was like, yeah
I'm what I'm gonna open a nightclub and be up all night still, you know, and I got to wake up at like 11 noon
Me meanwhile, you know, I'm like 35 40 years old doing that all the time like as a routine. I'm like, eh
Which is would be cool, but I just contrasted it to again
Like this is it's very important that you were able to detach and do an assessment and look at the game of like nightclub
Ownership and what does that entail?
I mean, you've got to be there like you looked at the game and you had a good comparison to look at Sarah's game and be like, oh look
We're gonna be playing two different wildly different games
That's if the Venn diagram doesn't overlap very much like we'll see each other for
Actually, we don't even see each other at night because she comes home. You're at the club. She's okay. Yeah, like a couple nights only
Yeah, so you you measured the trajectory the ROI the possibilities and you saw it. It wasn't good. Yeah
Good job, echo Charles
Next question is from
Levi
Mix, I don't know
Levick mix
He says, how do you play the game and trust that you're able to make competent decisions that are congruent with your growth?
For example, I've grown in almost unfathomable ways over the last year, but I still have mindsets from who I previously was
When making incompetent choices
I think what you need to do is
Take a step back and a beautiful way and I'm probably gonna say this a bunch
is
When you want to detach and you want to assess what's happening
Take a step back write down what's happening?
Write down like when you got to make a decision write down
The pros and cons that's why pros and cons lists are good. It's not good because you don't know it
It's good because it makes you look at it from a detached perspective you get to see
You keep it all in your mind. You're in it when you take when you write it down. Okay. Here's what's good
Here's what's bad. Oh my gosh. The bad really outweighs the good. Okay. Cool. Because you were able to take a step back
So writing things down when you come up to a decision point. Hey, wait a second. Let me just let me just go over
What are the outcomes that I could get?
From making this decision
How is this going to go and then?
Try and answer those questions without letting your emotions get involved again not not void of emotions
Put the emotions in the calculus
But don't let that drive the entire decision and then of course
Make iterative decisions and then listen to the feedback
So make a little small decision in direction that you think is right
And then pay attention to what the feedback is and make sure that it was the right decision if it's not then change it
Do you and this is kind of a weird hypothetical question for you. Do you let's say
your
30 30 year old self still in the military, right? Yeah, the dirt. Yeah, hell yeah
If that 30 year old jaco saw your jaco right now and would like watch you and whatever would would the 30 year old jaco be like
Oh, shit. He's a different person or would he be like, okay? He's just like older and wiser. I think he'd be like, uh
Yeah, the that oh, I see the conclusion of that idea the way it developed
I see like it's kind of cool. Like when I look back at my career in the military
Yeah, I don't say, you know from a leadership perspective
Here's this horrible thing that I did
And it didn't work. Yeah, usually I'm like, hey, here's what I did
And this is why I did it and it still makes sense and that goes back to when I was 30 years old
Now there's things I go. You know what could have done that better
But I can see that the trajectory of the way I was thinking was just not fully formulated yet
But I wasn't doing anything that was like 180 out. Yeah, you know
Uh-huh. It was like, oh, yeah, I really hadn't
I really hadn't quite gotten to this conclusion yet. Yeah, or I hadn't evolved that
Thought pattern yet, but it was going in the right direction. So I think if my 30 year old self would go
Oh, yeah, I can see where that we got that from
Yeah, yeah, that makes something along those lines because I make I'm kind of remit and I'm sure it's like
You know the slow burn of you changing in whatever way you change since even before
We you know back back in the day when we were like training I was competing and you're
To me it feels like you're the same person like literally the same talk trash person except now you
Talk about leadership to you know like a site, but yeah, and what's funny is when you and I were training
I was talking about leadership just not to you. Yeah, like I mean I was already
you know, that's
That's what I was doing. Yeah, do you know and I think I told you this
Actually, you already know this because you were part of it the first video I made
For money was with you actually the first like five video. I mean this money was but um
You were talking about leadership to some teachers. It's like we were making a dvd or something
And uh, it was for teachers and I so I came across that all those files
And I was listening to it and it's all like underdeveloped echelon front stuff. Oh for sure. It's so funny. You're all young
But anyway, my point is yeah, like you it doesn't seem like you changed at all
No, and like the principles that we talk about like when you're talking about that
Those principles are the same the same thing
Um, there's not been there there might be like I have might have a better way of explaining something
Showing a different angle for sure. Oh, yeah, but your way you're actually are a lot different
It just doesn't seem it doesn't feel like it to me like day to day
But yeah, if I were to if you were to like rewind and even watching those videos
I'm like, oh, this is like young jocco, but you're still the same jocco, but you change a lot, but
It's like I'm comparing it to myself like when I was like 25 or something
bro
My 25 year old still would barely recognize me. Well, yeah, that's true
I think with everybody and if you like my 25 year old self was definitely wild like was a little bit out of control and was
uh
kind of a maniac and I remember I remember when we were on with uh
With uh, Jim conco
And charlie plumb and they were like talking these guys are like
just
I don't want to use the word saintly but kind of saintly like heroic dudes
Yeah, and they were kind of like throwing me in you know with this sort of uh elevated
kind of
Virtue and I was like, hey guys, I just want to make sure
like I was a maniac when I was younger and
So let's not get too crazy with that stuff
But uh, but yeah, I mean the the principles and also
You know you explain something and then you explain it again and you see oh that was a little bit better
So you get better at explaining stuff over time, especially
Going from explaining stuff to guys in the teams where you're just using pure
military examples and then as
I worked with more and more companies like oh, here's another civilian example
Here's another business example. There's a family example and you start to be able to be able to
Tap into these other
ways of explaining things that are that are
Easier for some people to understand makes sense. Yeah, so there you go
uh next one
Digarmo for
Thoughts on how your concept of the game matches and or contradicts
Uh, Simon Sennick's
finite or infinite infinite game concept and that's that's a good question. Obviously
Using the term game and there's gonna be let's see where that ends up and and one thing that's interesting about this is
That idea of finding finite versus infinite games
Is actually from a guy named james kars who is an american philosopher
uh academic guy from nyu and he wrote a book
In 1987 that's called finite and infinite infinite games
uh
But as far as the concept goes it's it's not so much that
They match or they contradict what we've been talking about
It's it's not that they match or they contradict
So to give you the definition here a finite game is like any game that has
Parameters around it so I always say chess like chess you have 64 squares you got 16 piece per side
They can only the pieces can only move in certain directions, right? That's a finite game
Basketball uh, there's a court. There's a ball. There's a number of steps you can take when you're not dribbling
There's a height of the basket. There's a number of points that you get for a shot when you make it depending where you are
so so all those things are
Those are finite games and what one of the reasons like uh that I originally thought of this
Myself
I'm not trying to say I thought of the idea was
Uh chess
I heard I think lex freedman. Maybe it was lex, but someone talking about the fact that
That
A computer can win in chess because it's a finite game
So either zone number moves and if you can you can get that thing to run out the
The eventualities of each move and come to the best move and it can be the human
Infinite games that have no rules
There a computer
Might not be able to win because it's not going to be able to
Do something that's totally unexpected. It's not going to have the creativity that's needed now. Look we got a i coming in chat
GPT and all this stuff so
It's gonna but it's gonna take some sort of
Really revolutionary technology for a machine to be a
Human in an infinite game an infinite game is like life, right? There's no rules. You can move you
a total war
Total war this is a war where you're like this is for our survival, which means we're gonna do whatever it takes
There's no rules for as long. Yeah for as long as it takes no rules
Hmm street fighting for survival
Like that's sort of an infinite game because if you grab a bottle you can smash it on the dood's head and cut his throat open
Uh, if you get a chance to slam them their face down if you have a weapon
Like it's sort of just hey, whatever you got you can bring it into the game
And so you could have a computer that's like, oh, i'm gonna i will the first move i would do would be a throat punch
And then cool i put two bullets inside because i was carrying a gun like i win infinite game
So
finite games and here's the thing finite games are generally the smaller games and infinite games are the bigger ones
So what you want to win what you want to win at is the infinite game and by the way this
For me
Life is an infinite game obviously you can go anywhere
But more important to me is there's degrees in between finite and infinite right that is that most games
Most games have some level of rules
and where those rules are
You can have some games are very strict
Some games are very very very loose. There's very limited rules
Uh business has rules business has laws
But you can actually go and you can change and you can disrupt like that's the big thing right when i disrupt the industry
Yeah, it's because you were playing a finite game
Making your widget and all of a sudden i realized that i could make my widget that does something radically different to yours
And what yours does and all of a sudden you're out of you're out of business man. Yeah
so
When you can recognize that
When you can recognize what the rules are
And generally figure out okay those rules apply, but do i have to follow them?
And um
The same thing with like families like there's a wide there's a wide variety of ways people live as families right?
Just take a city versus hey this family lives in a city this family lives in a farm
This family lives in a van and surfs up and down the california coast. They don't have jobs. They have
Whatever they sell bracelets
On the seawall
That's a real thing like there's families that that's what they do they surf and they sell bracelets on the seawall
Right, that's a that's now the other person that's playing the game is like
Making a bunch of money working at a hedge fund trying to afford a place in malibu so the family can surf
He can only surf every once in a while
Who won the game?
I don't know dude. No this guy's he doesn't just surf at malibu. This other dude's in a van. He's going
He's going to ren con. He's going up to santa cruz. He's coming back down to dego. He's all over the place
This other dude. He's actually working most of the time. Yeah
and by the way
When he's getting an opportunity to surf he's kind of at malibu because that's where he invested all of his money into a house there
So who won that game?
Well, if you take the infinite game well
Well, what was the goal? Was the goal to make money or was the goal to surf?
So I think the important thing here is
Yeah, there's infinite games and yes, there's
Uh finite games. I think the important thing is to make sure you understand what the rules are
And if possible figure out if there's a way that you can disrupt those rules overcome those rules break those rules for lack of a better work
No, look if there's a legal rule that you're going to get arrested for you're going to lose the game
That's not what i'm talking about
But if you can figure out a way to
revolutionize
The way something is being done like, you know, you always hear that story about the freaking guy that figured out a better way to do the
high jump
Right fosbury fosbury flop. This guy changed the game. Yeah, right? He didn't he didn't he he changed
He viewed the sport and figured out a way to do that
That's within the rule the technical rules, but it's way outside the the physical
Standards of the way the game was played
totally different
That's a good example
So don't be limited by the rules. See if you can see I don't know what the thing is see if there's a bigger game you can play
Kind of what we just talked about like oh you're a bartender or you're a
Bouncer and you're the head bouncer
Is there a bigger game you can play? Yeah, you can you can open your own bar? Okay?
Well, that's kind of cool. Now. You're not worried about the hierarchy of the bouncers now. You're in a the next level game
But then the next level game is your new franchises. Well now you got a bunch of these you see I'm saying so
I'm always looking and you should always look for
If that's what you want
Is there a bigger game that you can play?
And don't get stuck in a game that you could possibly be losing where you could just be playing a bigger game
Um
Yeah, if you're trying you know you try to be the best restaurant in the best cook in your restaurant
Why not just open your own restaurant trying to be the best electrician so you can get promoted?
And manage a crew well, why not just start your own company that being said
What if you are an electrician?
But you what you really want to do is focus on your family?
Cool, then you stay working at a bigger company because no one call
You know what you know who they call when something goes wrong and you own a business they call you
It's your business. I own a lot of businesses man. The calls come in 24 7
The calls come in 24 7
I
Realize that when we opened victory MMA and fitness. I was like, oh
There's something wrong at the oh instructor didn't show up
Show up cool. I'm on my way. You know like that's the way it's going. Yeah
so
That's uh the way that I think that works
um
With the finite I don't think so my point is I don't think it matches or contradicts
Uh, what james karst said about finite and infinite and what what simon sennig he talks about it as well
Simon Sennig does he talks about the finite infinite game concept? But
This stuff what we're saying doesn't match or contradict is just part of it. It's just part of it
Um next question
This is also from levick mix
How do you with intention periodically check your pro progress within the game? You're playing look you got to detach
You got to take a step back. You got to track what's happening. You got to write down your goals and see where you're at
In order to do that you better schedule it because time slips by and next thing you know
You look up and you've been in the same game for nine years and you realize you haven't been making progress
So you need to schedule those reviews periodically
Once every quarter where am I at?
In the military they in a military they have a position called future operations
Which is someone that focuses on the future
You have to put someone there because if you don't put someone focusing on the future then everyone's just focus on what's going on right now
So pay attention to that
Um
The same thing that we have to do with our lives
You have to
Become you have to you have to set aside time and make yourself the reviewing officer
of your
Progress otherwise you'll look up in four years and you'll realize you haven't moved and you hadn't made progress
Next one
How do you know which games are important ones and which ones you can ignore again real quick you got up?
Okay, you've got to understand what you value. This is important
Because we talked about return on investment. We talked about what you need to put in we talked about what you're going to get out
You actually have to be honest with yourself about
What you value
And you should probably write down what you value because if you value money or you value money
Or you value property or you value family or you value friends or you value free time or you value surf trips to
To Baja and that's what you value better write that down
Because otherwise
You might be playing a game where what you're getting rewarded with isn't something that you value
Hey, we're gonna give you a promotion a new title. I don't give a shit
Right. Mm. Hey, we're gonna give you a new freaking BMW company car. I don't care
I want a BMW company car. I want to surf
Or I want to do jiu-jitsu
So make sure you know so if you want to know which games are important ones and which ones you should ignore
You need to figure out what you value
And then run the ROI and the risk to see if you're getting what you value from this game
Kobe
sab
Next question. He says I stopped lying to myself about my past my regrets and my failures
What then do I need to try to make up for lost time?
Or is it just about mindset going forward?
Uh
Well, we all should try and make up for lost time the problem is we can't
It's already gone
It's already gone. Well lost time is gone. It doesn't matter
So no, we're not gonna focus on that
We are gonna go forward doing as much as we possibly can
If you focus on the past and you focus on the lost time and you focus on the regrets
You're wasting time and energy on
Things that don't help you and don't move you forward
So we're not doing that
Good thing you stop lying yourself. Good job
You know, you made some mistakes. You made some adjustments move forward. That's what we're doing
Next one RU Y D raw J
If games are about winning
What is the best way to set metrics for winning the game and how important
Would that be?
The biggest problem here that we're talking about is that people don't know that there's a game being played once you recognize that there's a game being played
Then yeah, you got to define
What winning is going to look like
Then you do that by detaching and looking at it
And again going back to understanding what you actually value
And once you know what you value you're going to be able to see the game
And then you're going to see the game
And then you're going back to understanding what you actually value
And once you know what you value and once you see
What winning looks like then you write down the objectives of what that winning is and then you figure out what the strategy and tactics are to achieve those objectives and victory
Just like land navigation one of the earlier podcasts we did you have to know where you're going
You have to know where you're going. If you don't know where you're going
Then you're going to see where you're going to be and where you're going to be and where you're going to be and where you're going to be
And then you got to track your progress and see where you are and then see where you are in relation to where you're trying to get to
Again you have to define winning
You have to set the metrics because for echo winning might be
A year for me winning might be making a ton of money
So we're doing two different things
So you have to figure out what winning is in order to figure out that out you have to know what you value
Next one
Um, this is from Zach
Heedly headly possible to address being taken advantage of by those who know the game better. It's a tough lesson
But it happens often especially to young people
Can you get taken advantage of by people who know that the game better?
100 percent that's why we're talking about this
Because there's nothing worse than being in a game
With someone that knows the game and you don't you know where they know the game better than you or you don't recognize that you're in a game
So when you get no fight with someone that knows jiu-jitsu and you don't you get smashed
We came home from deployment
and
There was you know discussions and debates about what we were doing and the types of mission we were doing
and what there was one particular senior officer
and
I told
stoner and leif I said hey do not get into a debate with this guy
about our deployment
And they were like why not and I was like because he'll beat you
He'll beat you in a day. He'll beat me. I'm like I'm not going to debate this stuff with him. He
He does what he does. He's one of those people that goes around and
Would you step into the arena with someone that debates all the time?
You're not going to do well
It's like when you see the college kid getting a debate with ben Shapiro and he's got
74 facts that he rattles off
Because he had this argument at nine other places in the past two weeks
So they're getting in the ring with him. It's not you know, like they're not it doesn't end well
um
so
That's why you have to do an honest assessment of yourself
And you have to recognize that if someone is beating you in the game and you can't contend with them
You better find an exit strategy to get out of that game
Unless you go, okay, you know how to take some hits here, but I'm gonna learn that's okay
As long as you recognize that and you don't get taken advantage of the point where you get left, you know left for dead
Next one's from logan buil
BUHL how often should you be assessing if you're winning the long game?
How should you view the small games that seem meaningless that involve or impact the long game?
Look, we should be thinking strategic all the time all the time
We should be thinking about the long game all the time and we should not be playing games that don't move you towards this strategic goal
Does this mean don't
Don't uh ever watch a tv show because it's not helping your strategic goal
Well, no if you if you need a little downtime and the tv show helps you relax cool. Go ahead. Watch your freaking show
But that's not a game right that's a break and it's a strategic
But it's a tactical break that's gonna actually give you you know allow you to refresh your mindset and be ready for work and
blah blah blah now look if you're watching freaking uh netflix six hours a day
You got issues. Yeah, we're not doing that. No
So you should be thinking all the time. This is very this is a really good question. Of course, we address this question a lot
Think about the games that you're playing
And if you're playing games that don't help your big game your strategic game
You should not be wasting time with them
That's it
All of your games that you're playing should help your long term strategic goals
And and look if you got time and you happen to love freaking backgammon
And you get some satisfaction by playing backgammon and you want to go play that literal game
And you do it, you know once in uh two hours on sundays with your little friends
Cool, that's nothing wrong with that. That's cool. Have fun with that
That's fine. I'm not talking about that
I'm talking about your
Doing things
You're going out thursday friday saturday night going out looking for a girl going out looking for a dude
Right, and that's what you're doing thursday friday. You're drinking
But you're in that game
You're wasting money you're hurting your health
And by the way, if you think you're gonna meet the love of your life
There's better ways
Than in the pub
No, I did happen to meet my wife
So I guess there's a little except maybe you know, but we're not going to dedicate
We'll be careful about this one
We're gonna be careful about that one. Yeah, we're gonna be careful. Hey at a certain point the ROI, right? Okay, so this is what'll happen
You do be you've been doing this thursday friday saturday night drinking spending money
year
Two years two years you're looking around going hold on a second here, man. Three years. You're like wait a second
I haven't made any progress
Then it's time to may assess what the hell you're doing
so
Those tactical games that you're playing they've got to support your long-term strategic goals
That's it a long game. I like the idea of uh, like little like you mentioned backgammon, right where which is funny
I don't know. That's a that's a total jocco example. I don't even like I don't even understand backgammon
Yeah, I can this weird boat board with like a little long triangles on it, right? Yeah
Yeah, they're fun
But no a lot of those especially the old school a board games. They're actually good little micro like exercises for your mind
So like, you know, you you subscribe to dr. Luke, right?
Yeah, look on instagram on his thing. So he he he
He man, he'll put out some really good stuff little tidbits, right? So one of them was this thing about balance
Or he's like, yeah, just work on your balance and they think he's like on a curb or something
I don't know. I forget what he was doing, but he was like just talking about balance physical your physical
Balance proprioception just so he's like, yeah, if you improve that that decreases all cause mortality
Oh, just maintaining, you know that that and it has a lot to do with like, you know, your your neurotransmitters and your neurons and stuff
Like that in your brain. I don't know above my whole thing
But nonetheless explains it real simple and it's like man if you think about especially those old school games
Like that's kind of what they do if you if that's your downtime like batgammon. It's like, wow, that's kind of a solid one
Running numbers in your head. There's strategy. There's bath. There's like all these little things that give your brain this good
Actually, this good essentially exercise for your brain
Again, all those things all those things are important
Uh, you know learning new things they say that's really important, you know, just for keeping your mind fresh
Yeah, um, no if if you're
Me if you're stressed out and you need to know, you know, the current champ of batgammon
You know and you're following his life and maybe that could go into toxic, you know
The toxic zone for sure
As far as bro, if there's someone that's wrecked their life playing backgammon, I want to meet them
If there's someone that went too hard in backgammon, yeah, so I think I think like in a way
It's kind of it's a lot like surfing is you know when you take a break from the grind
You know stuff that you need a break from and then you go like do something like surfing where it's obvious
Oh, well surfing is conducive to your life. It's not like sitting on the couch watching reality
It's healthier working on your balance. Exactly right
But playing games searching games are the same exact thing just more for your brain
What about video games?
Well, it depends on what video game
That's what they say you go deep you can go deep looking into that
Then you'll see if you'll find all kinds of benefits with certain kinds of games
What kind of games are good for you video games? I don't know. I didn't go that deep, but everyone's no
You'll see little articles on like how I get it all
That was the least step ever
That's true, but no, you know, you can like find articles or whatever
That we'll say oh benefits of playing video games
Then it'll have like, you know hand-eye this and that and then you know, then you find out. Yes. It's certain kinds of games
And then you have all these secondary
Uh
Benefits as well like, you know, especially the like the shooter games that you're connected to your friends or whatever and other
Like, you know towns or whatever or the internet you ever play that stuff? No
Yeah, I guess there's little secondary benefits of that social
Yeah, yeah, yeah like yeah, that was weird during co vid when kids were like
The parents were we're saying hey, don't play video games all day and they're like, but this is the only way I have friends, right?
Yeah, that was the thing. Yeah, we I don't have video game like console at my house
So that wasn't happening at my house. Yeah, because I don't have that stuff
But I saw other parents were saying that to their their kids were like they were talking to me about it like
Well, they feel bad with your kids not with your kids playing video games
I think my kids don't play video games. Yeah, because we don't have the thing. Yeah
Yeah, but and not to say that's ideal. I'm you know, not necessarily
No, maybe it was bad. Maybe I should have given them more social connection, but you know, come on
Well, yeah, I don't think you can send again. I don't know brown. I'm not a psychologist
You know this about me that where I would but I do think that
Social connection is going to be most optimized person to person. I would think that's why that's through a screen
That's why that's you just was good. I think that's one of the many many many benefits of it. Yes. It's weird, man
Jiu-Jitsu is connected. Yeah, good time. Like it's
you're like
Connected you ever in your difference. So I don't know but you're smashing someone like and they're smashing you
Yeah, it's it's a it's a radical thing. So, you know when you meet someone and like you shake their hand or whatever
And then let's say you're just standing somewhere. It's like you don't know I'm that good
So you're kind of trying to keep your boundaries, you know the bubble, you know the physical in the bubble, right?
You're what do you call it personal personal space?
Yeah, I know
But you know when you meet someone new you want to respect personal space a little bit you're more sensitive to that
I guess, you know
Bro, when you roll with the guy in jiu-jitsu like it kind of just diss it's like they don't even you don't even have a bubble anymore
You don't have personal space. Yeah, even like when you're not rolling
It's funny. So like like you or like the guys who I always roll with you Greg noah like these guys like
I remember one time I was talking to noah and I was like, bro. I'm really close to noah right now
It's almost like I could engage it because I'm so used to rolling with them, you know
So like the personal space is like completely gone
And I think it's in a good way, but I guess that could depend on who you are
check
All right, so yes long game all the time
Caleb smith 547. How do I how how do how do you know?
How do I know when it's time to quit the game?
What are the symptoms of a game played that will ultimately lead to the invent inevitable loss of time money?
Uh, go it goes back to what we were talking about ROI. Be honest honest assessments. This is the sunk cost fallacy, right?
This is exactly what you brought up earlier
um
Okay, so
Again, some of these questions are a little bit repetitive, but I want to add some items to them
This one here if you want to know when it's time to quit the game and what are the symptoms
It can be good in some scenarios to set up triggers
For action
And this is the example of this is like, you know when guys are climbing a mountain like Mount Everest or whatever?
And they say hey if we haven't gotten to this point by 10 o'clock in the morning, we're turning around and going back
There's no we're not debating it. There's no there's no emotion around it 10 o'clock if we're not here
We're turning around we're going back down
You can do that with
The game that you're going to get involved in
You can hey, I'm going to only spend this amount of money. I'm only going to spend this amount of time
I'm going to at least if I'm not making this kind of return on investment like hey, I'm going to start driving
You know Uber at night
And I think that way I can get some more money, you know for for my down payment on my house
Well, then you realize that your ROI
Driving around your uber is not as much as you thought it was going to be. Hey, I'm not even meeting the minimums. This isn't working. I'm not going to do it
So
So figure out what the minimum required return is figure out how much time you're going to invest and put a cap on that figure
How much money you're going to invest and put a cap on that and then you and then you have the actions in places you're going to take
So when that happens that event gets triggered. Hey, I'm going to you know invest in
Trying to start up this little company
If I haven't you know, if I don't have 20 clients by the first three months
Obviously, there's not a market for it and I'm going to stop. Okay, cool
And then you stick with look if you get to 19 you're like, well, I'm close. Okay, cool
You know, you can you can make a little adjustment
But if you're at 13 that's been three months and you thought you're gonna have 20
Then you've made a bunch of adjustments trying to figure out the market and you're not there. Okay. You need to walk away
so
That would be
The thing to set up so that you recognize the symptoms prior to
because otherwise
If you don't have triggers in place
That's how you end up at the top of ever so you're out of oxygen and it's freaking dark
And you're gonna die
That's how you end up without any money left in your bank account and you don't have a successful business and now you got to sell your house
This is how it happens. You don't put triggers in place
And it causes problems
And you're like, oh, I'm gonna go to the next one
Next one
Chedida
Chedidia
Or maybe it's Chad Idia
What direction you go if you realize the games you are playing are unwinnable
But you don't have the ability to leave and if you did you don't know the game to take on next
Asking for a friend
Listen
When we get into a game that's unwinnable
We don't have the ability to leave. Okay, we'll figure out the next strategy
Right, you can figure out, okay, this job. I've been here forever. They pay me good money, but it's absolutely awful
I'm never getting promoted and I don't want to do it anymore. Okay
You can't leave tomorrow. You can't leave next week. You can't leave in a month
But you can over time a year two years three years figure out an exit strategy
And
Make a move we're not doing brash moves, right? We're not making emotional decisions. We're gonna take our time
How to get out of this game and then also take our time figure out what game to play next
To do a class on
Knitting
And you're like, dude, this is awesome. I love the way this feels to make the scarf and like I want to do sweaters
And okay, we'll go do some more of that. Maybe you're gonna end up selling sweaters on Etsy
Cool
Or you take a knitting class you're like, this is monotonous and I hate it. Okay, cool
Well, let's take some time to figure out the new game
Little iterative decisions and also multiple reconnaissance probes
There's so many opportunities out there in the world
There's so many of them and not all of them are good opportunities, by the way
Some of them might seem cool, but they're a lot harder than they look like
Some of them are
Harder than they look like but they're not that bad and you can make some good money and you can be gratified by doing it
So do multiple reconnaissance like oh you like knitting cool try a little bit of knitting
You also like making candles cool make some candles. You also like pouring concrete. Okay. Well, let's see what's going on with that
Maybe on the weekends you start pouring a little concrete doing some little projects for people for real cheap and you realize you're good at it
Maybe realize you suck at it, which is also possible
So do reconnaissance of multiple opportunities that are out there
Then you make your decision
And then you have that extra strategy to execute
Next one is from renais christine
Maybe you can talk about the thought process you go through in order to turn something hard into a game
Well, yeah when I'm doing something really hard, I'm gonna find some little achievable goals
Little achievable goals that lean towards a strategic victory
Maybe set up some rewards for me for my team
And then execute on those little things
I think
That
That mindset of like I'm literally gonna have fun with this thing that sucks goes a long way. Yeah. Oh, yeah
So I don't have that's my process like oh, yeah, this sucks
You know another thing is this sucks and I'm never gonna let it be know that I think it sucks
I'm doing something horrible
But I'm never gonna tell anybody and I'm actually gonna make them think I love it
They're gonna think I'm crazy. I kind of have fun with that. That's fun for me. I just turned it into a game
That's such a good game. It's a good game
So, um
So when I swim in the pool my kids and nowadays it's kind of colder than normal
Okay, look cold that means a lot of different things for different people. I understand and I am from koi
So I understand that going into the store for you. It's like under 70
So I would say it's about 55 degrees. Okay. That's cold. Yeah, that's legit cold
So I jump in my daughter can stand cold like she don't care. Yeah cold does not bother her
Here's the thing my son. He don't like that. He doesn't like cold
So
We'll jump in and I'll jump in first and she'll be like is it go. I'll be like, oh, it's so warm. Meanwhile. I'm like, bro
This is cool
And I'm like, oh, it's so warm. It's almost too warm, you know, like that kind right and they're like all believe in the more convincing
I can be meanwhile. I'm trying not to shiver, you know
And it's like it it almost like physically feels warmer
I'm saying like it's like the game kind of filters in the the bad stimulus turns it into like a different stimulus
Bro, that's a good one. They're there to act like oh, this isn't even a fat one. Like what I didn't even notice
I didn't even notice how cold it was. Buds, they would say false motivation is better than no motivation
It's kind of true, right?
There's a girl a lady named Jane McGonigal. She talks about gamification
It's an actual process where you take hard stuff
You turn them into little games and you get through them like, you know, you you thrive
Whatever and she did it because she had an illness. I forget the illness
And she was like, hey, I'm gonna turn this whole thing. This is my whole recovery process, which was super arduous process
I'm gonna turn this recovery process into a series of games and that's how she started on the path of like understanding gamification
But um, there's an actual process to it and it's like apparently it's super super effective
Let's do one more
And then we're we'll go and do another one. Um, because I got a bunch more of these things to cover
But let's do one more. This is kind of a little bit of a chunky one
This is from Santos Carlos the third
When solid honorable hardworking men refuse to play the game because quote there shouldn't be a game
How to navigate the dichotomy and dogma around progression as tenure
Versus progression through experience. This is a little bit tricky of uh, of a question to understand
But I'm gonna do my best with it and there's he says context
Some of the most knowledgeable talented and experienced people I've worked with
Were both years and decades younger in tenure
However, they spent so much time consistently exposing themselves to challenging problems
They progressed well beyond the 99 percentile anyone their age
So that's the that's the dogma around progression is tenure versus progression through experience
So it's time versus
That's really about effort because experience is sort of wrapped around time. So let's answer that
Uh people that engage and train and practice and challenge themselves will get better than people that don't
The
And so there's a dogma. He's like
The dogma around that
And I think what he's trying to ask is like the negative
What the negative
impression of people that
Work really hard don't have much time, but they're excelling. That's what I'm getting from this question. I hope I've I hope I've got it
Uh
The reason that that sometimes hurts people that are like let's say echo checked on board
He hasn't been here for very long, but he's really kind of kicking ass
And yet I kind of hold it against him. Why is that? There's a decent chance
That echo echo has the
He's exposing himself. He's training hard. He's putting himself in challenging positions
So he's learning a lot and he's doing really well, but echo doesn't have the maturity and tact to remain humble
So you end up creating an antagonistic relationship with me because
I'm looking at you like oh, he's just one of these people that's trying so hard and I'm gonna look for every little opportunity to hurt your progress
So
If you want to overcome the way that works
Or you want to help someone, you know, you get some new guy on your team that checks in that is really doing a good job
But it's rubbing people the wrong way
Just talk to him about staying humble and it's talking about the important
of building good relationships
And that will be helpful
so
I hope that answers the first question again. These are a little bit uh
A little bit I didn't quite fully understand them
The the second question is an observation more than a question
But it's interesting how many miss the opportunity of chasing forward looking asymmetrical opportunities opportunities with limited risk
But potential huge upsides and a relative solid likelihood of success. Why is that?
So why do people
miss opportunities
That have low risk
And I think there's a couple reasons number one is failure to recognize like they just don't see them
And because they don't detach and so that opportunities right in front of them. They don't see it
You know, that's the old experiment where the freaking
Gorilla goes walking through the people that are throwing the basketball and like no one sees it
Because they're in they're watching the counting the numbers and they don't see this obvious thing
So there's a failure to recognize because people don't detach enough
And they don't top of that sometimes they see the opportunity, but they don't want even a limited risk
They don't want to take even a small risk with a big reward. They don't want to take it. We see that all the time humans don't like
Humans tend to not want to take action and humans tend not to want to take risk
I is not all humans
Let me let me rephrase that there are many humans that don't like to take action and there are many humans that don't like to take risk
And so when they're presented an opportunity, but they're gonna have to do something a little bit different and they're gonna have to take risk
They're just like I almost keep doing what I'm doing
So I think that is why that happens
So there you go Santos. I hope I was able to kind of
Get those for you and uh with that to game for this time
I guess we're gonna have to do one more podcast about the game the game the games
Here we are in the meantime
If you want to play the health game the fitness game the being better game the stronger faster better game
Better get the jockel fuel game
The jockel fuel.com we got moke
Which is we got ready to drink moke right now, which is fire different level different fire fire slaps
Big oh it slaps big time. You like you you open your fridge. Maybe you could you know have a piece of steak
Maybe you could have some uh mozzarella
Sure, hell. Yeah mozzarella mozzarella with the virgin olive oil on it. Oh what those little things
Yeah, yeah, put a little basil on it. Yeah, that's the kind of thing
Sarah made those the other day like two days in a row. Yeah, those are good, but there's a I'm look
I'm gonna put myself on report for being lazy. Yes, sir
But there's like, you know, you're cutting basil leafs whatever
You're getting the oil out. You're making a plate. Oh that moke is just sitting there ready
Yeah, 30 grams of protein ready to go down the hatch. Tasty tastes better than mozzarella
Yeah, I mean this is a given. So we got the ready drink moke. We got the powder moke. We got
joint warfare super krill
Um cold war got it all and we got the energy drinks. Yeah, we got the energy drinks
So
But these aren't the normal energy drinks that make you sick and make you diabetic and are poison. No, these are not those
In the store are these in the health
Department bro, this is a good point the you when you go into a store when you go to vitamin shop
Well vitamin shop, they're there and pretty easy to find but when you go into like a military commissary you go into hanniford
You go into h e b or murphys or or myer
In some of these stores, they're in like the health and wellness section. They're not in the energy drink section
So just be advised. Yeah, that's kind of interesting, right? What's that? I mean the conundrum, right?
Uh from a store standpoint or from a what do you call customer?
Well from a customer say well from a store standpoint, they're like, oh
Well, this energy drink will put over in the energy drinks section because it's it's all these are the same, right?
But we also have a health and wellness things that make you better. Yeah, and we know where this belongs
Yeah, it's so they're kind of right. They're right either way. They're right
It'd be nice if they could give the consumer the visibility
On like, oh, I have a healthy option that I can go to here. Yeah
Well, I guess it kind of depends right? Well, ideally both but you know, then logistically, right?
I'm kind of kind of but
Yes, look if I go in I don't know. I don't know about the goes yet. I go in. I just want an energy drink
You know, I want the sugar free. I'm just gonna go, you know, I go and then I see the new go sugar free all the good stuff
It's good for you. It's like brah. I'm choosing now and all day all day energy drink
But at the same time if I'm like brah, I'm I'm not down for energy drinks
I'm down for the healthy one healthy stuff the kombucha
Or whatever. I don't know what the hell
Other healthy things but anyway, and then they're gonna see that boom. They're gonna grab that one as well
See what I'm saying? So they got to be there
So yeah, the hard thing is is like you get into this business
That's all that shelf space is like accounted for it means something
It's like every little slot that they have in any of these stores has value. There's a value at slot
So they're like, hey look, uh
We can't put you in both the way you want the whole so you want this to be what why don't we put it in the meat section too?
You know
Yeah, it's yeah, it's so it should be the produce section. Yeah kind of
So I'm looking for orange juice, right?
But the stuff, uh, what we got the freshly squeezed. That's what I'm looking for if you go in the juice section
The ones with the paul
I don't my wife does I don't
But you go in the juice section. There's three juice sections by the way in the supermarket. Huh? Yeah, you don't know that because you don't
Want to smell but so you go in the juice section with a grit?
Like in the refrigerator ish section. So there's your what do you call?
I forget the brands offhand, but welches. There's some welches in there. Tropicana. Tropicana. Yes. Simply orange
Simply grapefruit all these juices, right? There's that section. It's the refrigerator
Or you can go to the cranberry juice the cran grape the cram crann apple
The lemon juice that's in a hole. That's in the aisle. It's a different section
And then if you want the freshly squeezed
Oh, you're open like the organic area. Yeah, like night. It's like in the fruit and vegetable section kind of it's weird, right?
So it's like it's kind of one of those things you kind of got to know what you're there for and know who you're providing for at the same time
And we got to do a better job of letting you know to take a look around maybe ask the
Clurr the stock person ask somebody you know say hey
Where's this? Where's the where's the go at? Where's the jockel fuel at?
So there you go. You can get it at jockel fuel.com. You get a wow. You can get all these places
You know, you can get it go get it make yourself better originusa.com
Geese boots
jeans
rash guards
All made in america
Not made by slaves. Yeah, there's actual slavery in the world right now
Yeah, it's happening literally so literally so
Pete our boy Pete was on andy forcella
Real af the podcast really good like and he uh, that was a good podcast, but
Um, he's he put it a really good way. I don't think I've ever heard this before
He was like, hey, yeah, you know like america. Yeah, we ended slavery
But slavery didn't end we just we just shipped it offshore. Yeah, zoom saying so like we're letting the out of country slaves
Do the a lot of the work now. I'm like, dang when you think about it, brother. It's true. Oh, it's 100% true
It's 100% true
Uh, we don't want that. Yeah
We don't want that originusa.com and slavery
That's what we're doing
Get on board
jeans boots
Hunt gear the hunt gear. Let's face it
You can't not wear that every time I see your dumbass. Yeah, we're just wearing it
Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's what we're doing. Uh, the hunt gear. So check that out also
Apparently I have a store. It's called jacos store. Yeah
Uh, yeah. Yeah, that's when you want to represent this whole pat the source. That's what it's called now the source
Um, yeah, discipline equals freedom, you know good all these things they represent certain mindset
I guess you could say I don't know check it out jacos store
That's where you can get some so we have a short locker as well
Subscription service different designs a little bit funner from time to time sometimes are darker
But it's a new design every month
Little bit more emotional one direction or the other apparently
Yeah from time. Yeah, we switch it up for sure. Do you feel good when you nail it?
Sure. Yeah, and you get the good feedback. Yeah, even for me when I go, yep
Yep, that's a good one. The answer is yes. I do like that a lot. Sure. Sure
I'm a jacos store.com. Don't forget to subscribe to the podcast. Don't forget about jacohunderground.com
There's a there's a censorship. There's control of the platforms. There's drama out there. We're not in the drama
Look, we're doing our job, but if somebody wants to
Ban us they could do it tomorrow. We don't control their platforms
But we control ours jacohunderground.com if you want to go check that out
You can listen to this podcast some other podcasts that we do on there
It costs eight dollars and 18 cents a month if you can't afford it. It's okay
We still want you in the game
Email assistance at jacohunderground.com. We got a youtube channel origin USA has a youtube channel
We've got psychological warfare flip side canvas got a bunch of books. You know what they are ash along front
It's our leadership consultancy and don't forget that we have online training
We have online leadership training online life training extreme ownership academy take ownership of your life
Go to extreme ownership.com. I'm on there
Monday's doing live q&a. You want to ask me a question about your business about your life about jiu jitsu about your
your boss about your employee
about your
Husband your wife come and ask me
extreme ownership.com
There you go
There's a bunch of courses to take as well and also if you want to help service members active and retired
You want to help their families gold star families check out mark lee's mom mama lee. She's got a charity organization
Which is awesome
If you want to donate or you want to get involved go to america's mighty warriors org and don't forget
about another org heroes and horses
Micah fink up there and where is he right now? Oh, he's he's horseback in the mountains in the wilderness
With some veterans helping find their souls
So good of heroes and horses.org if you want to help that out. We're on the interwebs
Echoes at echo Charles
He's back on twitter after he freaking made a rookie mistake. It was a hard time for everybody. Yeah
Rookie mistake. Yeah for a computer guy. Yeah brutal. It can happen to anybody. I guess even the strongest have their moments of fatigue
And you just got mentally distracted
It's a metaphor
But that's what happened. That was fatigue. You were tired. That was legit
Hey, man, what the best of us get caught slid you out with that
Would you ever rather admit being tired or dumb?
I don't know
All right, well echo Charles is back on twitter. He feels
Like maybe he's lost some of his uh clout in the social media world because he has 19 followers now
I'm at jockewell like hey, listen when you go on there just watch out for the algorithm
That's not a game. That's gonna help you. That's not a game. That's gonna help you the algorithm game is gonna win
Don't let it and uh, thanks to all the military members out there worldwide protecting our way of life
Thank you for your continued service and thanks also to our police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics
EMTs dispatchers correctional officers border patrol secret service all first responders
Thank you for protecting us here at home and to everyone else out there. Remember, there's a lot of games being played
You are playing them
So pick the right games to focus on
Don't waste time on games that don't matter
And when it comes to the games that do matter
Play to win
Until next time the zekko and jockewell out